12976 : Improve Documentation/Storage-Configuration/Ceph-CSI/ceph-csi… (#12977)
rook/rook: Documentation/Storage-Configuration/Ceph-CSI/ceph-csi-drivers.md

## Static Provisioning

The RBD and CephFS rivers support the creation of static PVs and static PVCs from
an existing RBD image or CephFS volume. Refer

> o [static PVC](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/blob/devel/docs/static-pvc.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the [static PVC](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/blob/devel/docs/static-pvc.md) documentation for more details.
```

## Configure CSI Drivers in non-default namespace

If you've deployed the Rook operator in a namespace other than `rook-ceph`,
change the prefix in the provisioner to match the namespace you used. For
example, if the Rook operator is running in the namespace `my-namespace` the
provisioner value should be `my-namespace.rbd.csi.ceph.com`. The same provisioner
name must be set in both the storageclass and snapshotclass.

## Liveness Sidecar

All CSI pods are deployed with a sidecar container that provides a Prometheus
metric for tracking whether the CSI plugin is alive and running.
These metrics are meant to be scraped (collected) by Prometheus but can also be

> accessed through a GET request to a specific node,.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accessed through a GET request to a specific node.
```

> for example `curl -X get http://[pod ip]:[liveness-port][liveness-path]  2>/dev/null | grep csi`.

Reviewer: Let's put this command in a separate code block instead of embedded in the paragraph (put triple ticks around this):
```suggestion
curl -X get http://[pod ip]:[liveness-port][liveness-path]  2>/dev/null | grep csi
```
```

> The expected output is of the below form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

## Static Provisioning

> The RBD and CephFS rivers support the creation of static PVs and static PVCs from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RBD and CephFS drivers support the creation of static PVs and static PVCs from
```

> an existing RBD image or CephFS volume. Refer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
an existing RBD image or CephFS volume/subvolume. Refer
```

to the [static PVC](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/blob/devel/docs/static-pvc.md) documentation for more information.

## Configure CSI Drivers in non-default namespace

If you've deployed the Rook operator in a namespace other than `rook-ceph`,
change the prefix in the provisioner to match the namespace you used. For
example, if the Rook operator is running in the namespace `my-namespace` the
provisioner value should be `my-namespace.rbd.csi.ceph.com`. The same provisioner
name must be set in both the storageclass and snapshotclass.

## Liveness Sidecar

All CSI pods are deployed with a sidecar container that provides a Prometheus
metric for tracking whether the CSI plugin is alive and running.
These metrics are meant to be scraped (collected) by Prometheus but can also be
accessed through a GET request to a specific node as follows:

> ```curl -X get http://[pod ip]:[liveness-port][liveness-path]  2>/dev/null | grep csi```

Reviewer: nit: Single ticks are more common for a single-line block, or please separate the triple ticks to be on their own lines separate from the curl command.

csi_liveness 1
```

Check the [monitoring documentation](../Monitoring/ceph-monitoring.md) to see how to integrate CSI
liveness and GRPC metrics into Ceph monitoring.

## Dynamically Expand Volume

### Prerequisites

* For filesystem resize to be supported for your Kubernetes cluster, the

>   Kubernetes version must be >= v1.15 and for block

Reviewer: This paragraph is obsolete since our minimum supported version is now past K8s 1.20. Let's remove this paragraph.

  volume resize support the Kubernetes version should be >= v1.16. Also, the
  `ExpandCSIVolumes` feature gate must be enabled for the volume resize
  functionality to work.

To expand the PVC the controlling StorageClass must have `allowVolumeExpansion`
set to `true`. `csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-expand-secret-name` and
`csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-expand-secret-namespace` values set in the
storageclass. Now expand the PVC by editing the PVC's 
`pvc.spec.resource.requests.storage` to a higher values than the current size.
Once the PVC is expanded on the back end and the new size is reflected on
the application mountpoint, the status capacity `pvc.status.capacity.storage` of
the PVC will be updated to the new size.

## RBD Mirroring

To support RBD Mirroring,
the [CSI-Addons sidecar](https://github.com/csi-addons/kubernetes-csi-addons#readme)
will be started in the RBD provisioner pod. CSI-Addons support the `VolumeReplication`
operation. The volume replication controller provides common and reusable APIs for

> storage disaster recovery. It is based on the [csi-addons/spec](https://github.com/csi-addons/spec)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
storage disaster recovery. It is based on the [csi-addons](https://github.com/csi-addons/spec) specification.
```

> specification and can be used by any storage provider.

Reviewer: No need to mention other storage providers in rook.
```suggestion
```

It follows the controller pattern and provides extended APIs for storage disaster recovery.
The extended APIs are provided via Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs).

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: Let's remove this section, no need to mention the min version since Rook's is already higher than this.

                storage: 1Gi
```

A volume claim template is defined inside the pod spec, and defines a volume to be
provisioned and used by the pod within its lifecycle. Volumes are provisioned
when a pod is spawned and destroyed when the pod is deleted.

Refer to the [ephemeral-doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/ephemeral-volumes/#generic-ephemeral-volumes) for more info.
See example manifests for an [RBD ephemeral volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi/rbd/pod-ephemeral.yaml)
and a [CephFS ephemeral volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi/cephfs/pod-ephemeral.yaml).

## CSI-Addons Controller

The CSI-Addons Controller handles requests from users. Users create a CR
that the controller inspects and forwards to one or more CSI-Addons sidecars for execution.

### Deploying the controller

> Administrators may deploy the controller by running the following commands:

Reviewer: Instead of mentioning users, our new preference is to use the command form. Not all Rook docs are following this, but that's the goal.
```suggestion
Deploy the controller by running the following commands:
```

                storage: 1Gi
```

A volume claim template is defined inside the pod spec, and defines a volume to be
provisioned and used by the pod within its lifecycle. Volumes are provisioned
when a pod is spawned and destroyed when the pod is deleted.

Refer to the [ephemeral-doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/ephemeral-volumes/#generic-ephemeral-volumes) for more info.

> Example manifests for an [RBD ephemeral volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi/rbd/pod-ephemeral.yaml) and a [CephFS ephemeral volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi/cephfs/pod-ephemeral.yaml) on these pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See example manifests for an [RBD ephemeral volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi/rbd/pod-ephemeral.yaml) and a [CephFS ephemeral volume](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/master/deploy/examples/csi/cephfs/pod-ephemeral.yaml).
```

### Deploying the controller

Administrators may deploy the controller by running the following commands:

```console
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/csi-addons/kubernetes-csi-addons/v0.7.0/deploy/controller/crds.yaml
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/csi-addons/kubernetes-csi-addons/v0.7.0/deploy/controller/rbac.yaml
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/csi-addons/kubernetes-csi-addons/v0.7.0/deploy/controller/setup-controller.yaml
```

This creates the required CRDs and configures permissions.

### Enable the CSI-Addons Sidecar

To use the features provided by the CSI-Addons, the `csi-addons`
containers need to be deployed in the RBD provisioner and nodeplugin pods,
which are not enabled by default.

Execute the following to enable the CSI-Addons sidecars:

* Update the `rook-ceph-operator-config` configmap and patch the
 following configuration:

```console
kubectl patch cm rook-ceph-operator-config -nrook-ceph -p $'data:\n "CSI_ENABLE_CSIADDONS": "true"'
```

* After enabling `CSI_ENABLE_CSIADDONS` in the configmap, a new sidecar container named `csi-addons`

> should now start automatically in the RBD CSI provisioner and nodeplugin pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will start automatically in the RBD CSI provisioner and nodeplugin pods.
```

!!! note

>     The version of `ceph-csi` used must be at least `v3.5.0`.

Reviewer: Let's remove this note completely. We are already beyond this min version of CSI.

## Enable Read affinity for RBD volumes

Ceph CSI supports mapping RBD volumes with KRBD options to allow
serving reads from an OSD closest to the client, according to
OSD locations defined in the CRUSH map and topology labels on nodes.

> Refer to the [krbd-options document ](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/man/8/rbd/#kernel-rbd-krbd-options)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [krbd-options document](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/man/8/rbd/#kernel-rbd-krbd-options)
```
